Alright Paul.. Here's a basic overview.  I think this should cover most of your questions.  I whipped it up rather quick, so don't hold me accountable for my grammar :-)Twilight II is a new Apple IIgs screen saver control panel.  I don't know if you're familiar with the original shareware version from a couple years ago, but this is a complete rewrite.  System 6.0 is required and fully taken advantage of.  Twilight II lists for $39.95 and is being published by Digital Creations, a part of DYA.  It should be available from most mail order houses soon after v1.0.1 is released, in about a month.  At the Apple Expo East v1.0 was released to attendees (with a free upgrade to v1.0.1,) but we have decided not to sell more copies until v1.0.1 is completed, in about a month.  v1.0.1 will have over 30 different screen saver effect modules, including 3-D fractal mountains, fireworks, snow, rain, wireframe 3-D animations, a kaleidoscope, a module ("YouDrawIt") that allows you to draw the animation with any GS paint program, a module to play PaintWorks type animation files, plasma clouds, subterranean tunnels, scaled and rotated polygon shapes, a module that slowly bounces a fading clock around on the screen, a module that draws random quotes from several hundred included (with the ability to add your own) around the screen, a module that does a classic "life" simulation, moire effects, a display of static, a trek through the universe, as well as all the old Twilight 1.0 shareware modules.  Twilight II will blank the screen using the effect(s) you have chosen in any GS/OS desktop based program.  In text based programs (such as America Online, ProDOS 8 applications like AppleWorks Classic, ProTerm 3, etc.), Twilight II will clear the screen to black when the time to blank has elapsed.  However, when the screen is just cleared to black, the program running can continue to run, so a print in AppleWorks wouldn't be interrupted, nor would a file transfer in ProTerm or America Online.  In addition, each corner of the screen can be set to control blanking.  Corners can be set to make the screen never blank, make the screen blank immediately using the effect(s) selected, or blank the screen to black, in the background.  Normally in desktop programs when the time to blank has elapsed, the program running is stopped so that the animation can occur.  When you move the mouse to a background blank now corner, the SHR screen is just made black, but the program running will continue to run.  This feature can be used in conjunction with another option that automatically does a background blank when there is a watchcursor onscreen, and all other times stops the desktop program running to execute the module you have chosen.  So if you are in a word processor and walk away, if it is time for the screen to blank, since the cursor isn't a watch, Twilight II will use the effect(s) you have chosen.  But then you could go to print, and then walk away, and since the cursor is now a watch, Twilight II will automatically only make the screen blank black, so that the print operation can continue.  The same thing applies for copying files with the Finder, shrinking and unshrinking things with GS-ShrinkIt, etc.  Also, you can select a range of different effect modules and turn "random mode" on, so that each time the screen blanks a different module will be used!  Either two 3.5" floppy drives or a hard drive is required, along with System 6.  1.125 megabytes of memory minimum are required, but if many DA's, inits, and system sounds are installed, 1.5 meg or more will provide better results.  Twilight II also fully support multi-user AppleShare networks.  The CDev itself has been written in 100% assembly language for optimal speed and small code size, and has been over 2 years in the making.For futher information, contact:Digital Creations: Twilight II55 Skyview DriveTrumbull, CT  06611-4033Attn: Jim Maricondo(203) 377-1121America Online: "AFC DYAJim"Delphi: "DYAJIM"GEnie: "J.Maricondo1"Internet: "afcdyajim@aol.com"